#summary Installation and Use

= Installation =

Download the GumPad installer and install it on your Windows system.

GumPad is a .NET Framework application. If you are running Windows Vista, the .NET Framework is already installed on your system. If you are running Windows XP or an earlier version of Windows, you may need to download and install Dotnetfx.exe from the Microsoft MSDN Download Center before you can use GumPad.

= Using GumPad =

GumPad is an easy to use editor for composing text in Indian languages. It works almost like notepad for editing text. To compose text in one of the supported Indian langauges, you will need to type text in English almost like how we spell most Indian names and words in English. For e.g., to compose the word himalaya in an Indian language, you must type himAlaya or himaalaya. The A or aa in place of the single 'a' we normally use to spell himalaya indicates that the 'a' sound is a stretched vowel.

Vowels and consonants from Indian languages are mapped to similar sounding vowels and consonants in English. You can see the English letter sequences that map to the corresponding Indian language characters by selecting the "Show Map" item under the Help menu. You can even change the map to suit your preference by selecting the "Map..." item under the Preferences menu.

How GumPad converts the text you type in English depends on which of the following modes you choose. You can change this setting at any time by checking or unchecking the "Convert As You Type" checkbox under the Preferences menu. The currently active mode is always shown on the lower right of the status bar.

*Convert as you type mode*

In this mode, text is converted to the Indian language you have selected as you type into the editor. You can see the English language text of each word as it is typed on the lower left of the status bar. You can see the Indian language to convert to from the lower right of the status bar. You can change the language setting by clicking on the little arrow that appears next to the name of the currently selected Indian language.

*Convert after you type mode*

In this mode, text appears in English as you type into the editor. After typing some text you can select all or parts of it and convert it to one of the Indian languages from the Convert menu.

For e.g., type himAlaya in GumPad. Select the word using either the mouse or the shift and arrow keys just as you would select text in any Windows application such as notepad or Word. Click on the Convert menu and click on the language of your choice. You should see the word himAlaya converted to the language you selected.

For e.g.,

    himAlaya హిమాలయ হিমালয हिमालय ਹਿਮਾਲਯ હિમાલય ಹಿಮಾಲಯ ഹിമാലയ ஹிமாலய 

GumPad uses a transliteration engine to convert the words you spell in English into the Indian language of your choice. Select the Map menu item in the Preferences menu to view or change the English letter sequences that map to the Indian language character sequences. You can save the translation map, customize it to a different scheme and reload or share your customizations with other users. For e.g you can create a custom map file to match ITRANS, the grand daddy of transliteration software for Indian languages.

You can Save, print, or cut and paste converted text into another windows application.

*Known Issues*

Gumpad works best on Windows Vista. On Windows XP, and older versions of Windows, certain languages may not render correctly with the default Windows fonts after translation. You can work around this by either setting the font to a different Open Type font for the language or by installing the newer Windows Vista fonts.

Print Preview works on Windows Vista but does not seem to work on Windows XP. The Print function however, seems to work on both.